#summary Provides project purpose, application, background and related work
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Project Overview =

== What is it? ==
The SPOT is a remote flash trigger radio transceiver. It has two modes of operation:
 # As a transmitter it sits on the hot shoe of a camera and forwards electrical flash trigger signals from the camera to slave flashes via radio
 # As a receiver it is connected to a small hot shoe (“system”) flash

== Predecessor projects and other resources ==
This project was not built from scratch. Hardware and software from predecessors went into it.

 # Original “Strobit” project by “madeinoz68” (http://code.google.com/p/strobit/)
 # “Strobit M8” by J. Gentsch (http://blog.everythingrobotics.com/strobit/strobit-m08-files/)
 # “Commander Photon” by “Psinewave” (http://www.flickr.com/photos/psinewave/2564520184/) 

The online community at www.mikrocontroller.net and especially the posts by Benedikt K. concerning the radio transceiver modules RMF12 were extremely helpful.

The Nokia 3310 LCD driver is based on the work of Sylvain Bissonnette. The version I found did not work for me but two very important details did: The SPI interface protocol and the character set.

== “Strobist”? ==
If you’re reading this you’re probably a strobist yourself. If not: Self-proclaimed “Strobist” David Hobby has created the comprehensive off-camera flash learning platform strobist.blogspot.com. Motto: Less gear – more brain – better light. Flash triggers are the main exception to the rule of “less gear”. The associated online community at flickr remains friendly and supportive despite its tremendous growth. 

In order to find out why and how to use the SPOT the strobist website is the place to go. Take a look at Lighting101 (there are translations to several languages) and if you want to learn lighting systematically do the lighting 102 course. 

The acronym SPOT was proposed for the original Strobit project in one of the related flickr discussions by David (see http://www.flickr.com/groups/strobist/discuss/ 72157602088957861/page2/#comment72157602086321038).

== Commercial relatives ==
The SPOT has one unique feature (manipulate the flash power at the transmitter) but it shares a common heritage with many commercial products: Pocket Wizards, Radio Poppers, Sky Commanders, Cactus Triggers and many proprietary studio flash radio triggers. An overview (in German) can be found at http://goodlight-photography. blogspot.com/2009/01/hier-findet-ihr-eine-ubersicht-uber-die.html.